hi I'm Teresa Arnold senior patient
safety analyst for the Pennsylvania
Patient Safety Authority patient
identification and procedure errors are
well-recognized challenges within
healthcare organizations although much
of the focus of patient and procedure
verification has been on surgery the
authority has identified specific
processes within radiology services that
expose patients to potential harm these
include order and scheduling
inaccuracies patient misidentification
and inaccurate procedure verification
processes failure to correctly identify
patients and correlate their clinical
information can lead to unnecessary
risks including over exposure to
radiation delay in diagnosis and
treatment and inaccurate treatment
establishing policies and standard
practices similar to those developed for
surgery may help radiology providers in
hospitals and outpatient centers prevent
unintended procedures and untoward
patient outcomes one strategy that can
be adopted to prevent these types of
errors in radiology services is the use
of the Joint Commission's universal
protocol for preventing wrong site wrong
procedure and wrong person surgery
although this protocol is targeted
toward preventing surgical mistakes it
can be used to standardized procedures
in other areas such as radiology to
ensure that patients are accurately
identified and procedures are
appropriately performed and scheduled
please visit the authority's website
listed below this video to access the
article applying the universal protocol
to improve patient safety in radiology
services as well as tools that can be
used to develop effective protocols
within your organization